>> So this session is going to be Designing and Developing
Hybrid-Web/Cocoa Applications and it's being brought to us
by the Barbarian Group who flew out from New York
and Los Angeles to give us this fine presentation.
At this time I would like to bring up Keith
Butters, one of the partners of the Barbarian Group.
>> Keith: Is this working?
Hey everybody.
George stole my show of hands so I don't
have that little bit of the intro to this.
Hybrid-Web/Cocoa Applications, when George called
us I had no idea what this means and part of that is
because I am primarily a graphic designer
and I brought Toby and Chandler with me
so they can get into all the technical stuff.
Toby is our CTO and Chandler is a Senior Developer with
us, but what do we mean by Hybrid-Web/Cocoa Applications?
Basically we are talking about using WebKit which is
really awesome in every demo I've seen so far this week
and I am sure you guys to have be dazzled by it.
And what we really don't mean though is just tossing a
browser into your app for the sake of throwing a browser
into your app because a lot of apps that I have been
seeing lately come out, I mean there is no point
in having a browser, I'd rather click
a link and just go to my browser.
I have a browser, I like my browser, it's setup
the way I want it to be so, I like it that way.
So basically we are talking about making your application
more awesome and part of that has to do with the appearance,
a lot of that has to do with making it skinnable and
so users can you know add their own skins and such
and it's also real easy to consume web services and to use
the power of the web in other ways then just browsing.
So why design hybrid apps?
Part of it is that we can make much more interesting
user interfaces with you know AJAX and all that stuff.
I saw the Dojo talk yesterday which was super cool
and if you didn't see it you should
definitely watch the video when they come out.
And their doing all kinds of really interesting
stuff that's not just sort of AppKit.
You know, I mean, I'm sorry there doing really
interesting stuff but you can put it in your app
and it's not just AppKit based you know user
interface controls you can be very custom about it.
And then another reason to do it is that the
human interface guidelines are fairly out of date.
I mean most things like CoverFlow
aren't even in them right now.
If you look at iTunes, the iTunes Store in
particular is very much just a web view sitting
in the middle of your application.
Then there are apps like Disco and Cha-Ching which are,
they use WebKits somewhat but its also just good examples
of people doing more interesting
graphic design with their application.
And another reason is that you can still use your data
when you are off the grid, when you're on an airplane
or when you are in a tunnel , Amtrak which
we do far too often in our line of work.
I know that Dojo 0.9 once again in their session was
saying that they sort of solved this for their release
that is coming out, but it's still you know its still
0.9 and I don't necessarily know how it works yet
and I know it's not coming out for a couple
weeks so it will be interesting to test.
But for now to develop a be able to
save your data locally and use your app
on an airplane is a pretty compelling
reason to stick around.
And back up your data locally and remotely
and plus of course all the fantastic
features of WebKit that you get for free.
Now design wise like our shop is primarly
a web shop and we have you know people
who design really beautiful websites all
the time and then we also do some software,
this is an iTunes plug-in we've been working on
which you need to check out if you haven't yet.
It's called Magnetosphere and then we
also actually built a hybrid application
and I didn't realize that's what
it was called when they built it.
But if you may have seen this in Best Buy or some of
those other places where Apple has a store within a store
and this is basically a one window
giant full screen web view
and everything else inside it is
all just basically a website.
I mean you probably wouldn't know it by looking
at it and users have no idea that they are looking
at web pages but that's indeed what it is.
So I'm going to talk a little bit about what these
guys are going to teach you, hopefully teach anyway.
How building hybrid apps affect
the user interface design process.
It's a very different work flow using AppKit
and using WebKit to design your application.
And in turn effects the development cycle substantially.
And then Toby is going to talk about all
the technologies that you can leverage now
that there's an actual WebKit instance in your application.
And then Chandler is going to go into real detail later on
about dealing with bindings and Core Data and how to make
that all work with JavaScript etc and then these are a bunch
of the technologies that we're talking about over the course
of the day Core Data and bindings of course which makes
your web view a real sort of it feels like a piece
of your AppKit application, XHTML, CSS, SVG for
design Canvas for drawing and JavaScript XML
and all the plug-ins you sort of just get for
free because you got WebKit in your application.
This is sort of a common problem for me as a
graphic designer, I'll open up a interface builder,
lay out my application and I think it's gorgeous, I'm
like okay this is perfect and then immediately I'll open
up you know iChat and you know Aperture and whatever else
and all of a sudden I'm looking at the screen and thinking
like oh wow my UI kind of sucks and it's not that AppKit is
bad, there's plenty of great places for AppKit but its just
that some many apps now are so much more
beautiful then the off the rack AppKit look.
And once again Leopard is quite a bit better,
there's some heads up display stuff in there if any
of you have checked out the IB the newest IB.
But it's still not as beautiful as a lot of things.
So I brought this in here for two reason, one because you
know working in a Simpsons quote is always a good thing,
but it also, thank you, one person liked that.
But it also seems, it's the way I think about graphic
design and a lot of us are sort of self hating narcissists.
It's true and we work and we work and we
work until we reach the point of something
that we don't hate instead of something
that we fall in love with.
So what we've been doing now is developing in parallel
where you have an AppKit view this is a Core Data inspector
and it presents all the information in a fairly clear way.
It doesn't, it's not nearly as usable as what you
like to have but it's a quick way for developers
to put everything together and deliver it to a
designer such that the designer can build a UI based
around what they see and change to look of the application.
So here's the same information laying it out in
WebKit with CSS is actually just a Photoshop comp
that they later can cut up and
style and all that sort of stuff.
And so we did this one and I said no that's not too great and
we moved on and did this one, it's a little stock application
as you can see but I could design a hundred
of these things and they can modify the CSS
and do all that stuff really, really quickly.
And this is another sort of designer pet peeve
that I'd like to bring up with everybody.
I get this phone call weekly maybe monthly you know
fairly often and there usually really, really wrong.
It's so important to have somebody who has a semblance of
graphic design knowledge working with you from the beginning
so that your app is not you know, we've all downloaded those
apps where they've just got, they just said oh I am going
to use the brush metal and oh I am
going to use this kind of button
and all of a sudden it looks just like a big mishmash.
You should start with a designer so that then when you
do need your icon you already got one and they can do it
and it's not going to cost you an arm and
a leg and they are not going to complain
about your app the whole time while your doing it.
Now custom view design it's really hard and I have yet to
find anyone and I am sure pretty sure there are people here
but we live in, we work in sort of a smallish bubble
and our experience and the people we are networked with.
It's really hard to find somebody who can do great
custom views and that shouldn't be a limitation
to making your application look beautiful.
And it also means that you developers can be working on, you
developers can be working on the hard stuff and let a kid
from San Francisco who can throw a rock
in San Francisco and hit a web designer.
Let them deal with your visuals and of
course consult with them and all of that.
Their easy to find and they all know
most of the technologies that you'll need
to make your site beautiful including really nice
CSS and CSS 3 which is going to work really nicely
with resolution independence and all that.
And it also changes the development cycle quite a bit.
As I showed you those two quick comps of this little
stock viewer demo, they don't have to recompile,
my developers don't have to recompile and I can change
everything about the way my application looks using WebKit
and I think its really worth noting to that by using
CSS and WebKit and all of this for your app design,
you can give power to your users and users
really like to sort of rally around your product
and you know help with it and they want to contribute.
And by it including skins that other people
viewed you can probably you know at some point,
when your app design is solid enough you can
let your user do it and not even worrying
about managing a whole team and all that.
It will make your application a hell
of a lot better and it's only going
to enhance the community that lives around your application.
And now I am going to bring up Toby who is going to
teach you or try to teach you, ha ha, a bunch of the nuts
and bolts about all this stuff and after that Chandler is
going to come up and do some demos and show you that app
that we were working on and a few other things
So thanks.
>> Toby: Thanks Keith.
So how many people here are now or
have been a career web developer?
And how many are Cocoa developers?
And both? Okay so my talk is going to be for the people
who especially that are both, maybe too much of an overview.
But I am going to go thru and introduce some of the tech
that you use both on the WebKit side and on the Cocoa side.
And talk a little about the overlaps and show
kind of how easy it is to get those concepts
and start working toward making hybrid apps yourself.
So everything I just said is right there.
I am going to give some uses for WebKit that may be
kind of standard and will be a little bit different,
sort of what Keith's talk on using it for design.
One of the most obvious uses for WebKit is to consume
resources and a resource is basically anything with a URI.
It can be local or remote
using the file protocol or HTTP.
If you can access it through your browser, you'll be able
to access it with WebKit so that obviously includes things
like XHTML pages, all of your objects,
images and SVG and swifts.
You can invoke web services obviously and
then you can consume RESTful resources.
The benefits of consuming resources in your Cocoa
app are obvious if you want to build a browser
or do what Keith said not to do and
just throw a browser into your app.
You can publish data online and pull
it back down for reading it obviously.
And then you can support skinning,
Keith talked a bit about that.
There's modifying resources too which is useful for things
like an app that publishes to your blog or something.
You can also use it in some interesting ways, one
of the talks I saw earlier in the week had used it
for the CS3 installers for the Adobe
Suite which was a really cool use.
You can active serials if you want to you
know roll your own and then if you are kind
of a masochist you can let users submit
bug reports directly from your app.
You can update app resources, pull down things, you know
like skins from users, you can let users push skins live
and you know icons, the app we're going to use later uses some
custom icons for different stock symbols and you can pull that
sort of thing
down as new people are added to the
important part of the market anyway.
Using HTTP is good for this, there's kind of a
resurgence in looking at the protocol itself lately
and using refs the verbs that HTTP provides let you
do pretty much everything you'll want to do remotely.
So WebKit is one of the few browsers
that gives you all the power of HTTP.
So the benefits of modifying resources in
general are just that it's really easy.
So if you can think of a way that you might benefit
from that, it's super easy you may as well use it.
And then at the protocol level you
don't have to rewrite anything.
And then there's sharing data.
You can have an app that's just a local stand alone app
that you know does terribly important things but then a lot
of other apps can benefit form pushing data you
know to .mac or just to your own web server
or across to other users in case of like an IRC client.
So once the data is in a centralized location and
you can access it from all sorts of different clients
so Dashboard Widgets we all use to access all kinds
of online information and a lot of apps come bundled
with widgets so that the widgets are part of the suite.
You know suddenly have a suite, other users of your app just
of the single client you write
can share data with each other.
If you are publishing everything to a server
you can obviously have pages that show the data.
We could have had a scheduling app if we wanted
to, to download you know the attendees schedule
and also see it online cause the data centralized
and then there are some new mobile devices
that benefit from web development these days.
You can also purchase data for offline
consumption, which you can do without WebKit.
You can go out and pull data and you can use
all sorts of protocols, a full network stack
but most of the time the data seems to be the
buzz anyway and definitely the stuff that we work
with the most being primarily a web shop is stuff
that's on the web so you can open NetNewsWire
and pull down your RSS feeds all 900 of them and
then you get on Jet Blue and you can read them.
So by, you pull them down with WebKit and then use other
tech to store them for now anyway but it's a good use.
And if you add services, even really light
weight services to your business model,
your app then you get some maybe a little strong
armed loyalty there once users are sinking everything
through your app and through your server, even
if a competitor comes out and writes a client,
their still using your service so
if you make your app a little richer
and kind of move it you know off the
desktop a little bit you have the ability
to attract more clients cause they can use lots
of different client applications to access it.
So I'm going to go through that sort of
pedantic overview that I was talking about.
For the people that are just web developers and not
Cocoa developers I thought I would introduce some
of the Cocoa tech that you will be using.
I'll do this the inverse for the Cocoa people and
then I'll talk about the overlaps a little bit.
So Cocoa uses MVC, all of the better
web frameworks do from back
in my J2EE days using Struts thru Rails and in Jango now.
Everybody is using MVC cause it's a good
model, it's been around for a long time.
The pattern is a classic and Cocoa has had it and you know
since the inception you know since the small talk days.
Core Data for web developers is like a local
really strong database, it uses SQLite
and you get you know all the benefits of having
a local data base inside your app basically.
Including not having to worry to much about multiple
users messing with the data at the same time.
You get familiar resource consumption and the familiarity
is both on resources web pages, everything that we consume
on a daily basis and you also get the
familiarity of the rendering engine.
So you can have form controls that you know move a little
bit away from the AppKit style and are something that anyone
who has used the web will be used to
which is good and there quick to build.
AppKit and WebKit together provide for a really
flexible presentation later because you can do
you can use a lot of the cool stuff that you'd other wise
have to script yourself like the NSCollection view
which is like my favorite thing right now.
And then you can also use WebKit for things as
flippant as just making like a gradiant bar with SVG
that you just didn't want to do for some
reason with a custom drawing you know
up to building a browser and throwing that up in there.
With bindings, bindings are really cool for web developers
I think as a web developer because you are use to having
to kick all you bars up to whatever your presentation layer
is and you kick up everything to ERV for instance and Rails
and you have to do that yourself I mean is kind
of easy but you still have to do that yourself.
With bindings you get sort of two directional
sync, you can sync your models with your views
and if someone changes something in
the views, it reflects it in the model.
It's really cool and probably along with core
data one of the most attractive parts of Cocoa
for web people I think, well with WebKit of course.
So the web tech for Cocoa folks, this will be really
quick because everyone knows this stuff I think.
XHTML, XML its how everything should be done out there
and so you're used to that, CSS you know in the past few years
for those who may have done some web dev back in the
day and have only been doing Cocoa stuff for a while.
Everyone is moving toward web standards and it has moved
toward web standards and is doing nice semantic markup
and keeping all of the presentation in CSS so you can break
out all of that presentational logic and make it available
to users you know like Keith was talking about.
And it also fits really well in a sort of multi disciplinary
shop like ours, so you are going to have people working
in parallel that may or may not care that it's a Cocoa
app, they just need to be able to develop something.
SVG is getting more and more awesome by the day gives
you a great sort of stateful way to draw and it's based
on web standards and it doesn't
really get any better then that.
You script with JavaScript for animation and
interactivity so its tech that you already know.
You don't require any proprietary apps
that you have to buy for everyone.
Canvas is sort of a faster non
stateful way to draw in WebKit.
I used a lot in Dashboard Widgets and
gives you the power to sort of do a lot
of complex drawings really fast
without taking up a lot of memory.
JavaScript is sort of the lingual
frank of client side scripting.
And then you get all the plug-ins that you
know are available for your web browser.
Then there's just resource consumption in general and
as I said earlier, I think of a resource as anything
that has a URI and that doesn't just include files
and images and things but also RESTful services
so you can you know you can have actions as resources.
And so you get that with WebKit and web tech in general.
So some of the overlaps there are some
common concepts between the two NDC,
the way that some web frameworks have bindings like
abilities, if you are into you know just Cocoa dev
or just web development and you're here,
you're obviously smart and into a lot of things
and so there's not really a high barrier to entry.
You don't necessarily have to become the best web developer
in the world or the best Cocoa developer in the world,
you can kind of take baby steps towards pulling
AppKit pieces into your you know light weight sort
of WebKit wrapper apps if you're a web developer or
you can start tossing in little things for just UI
if you're a Cocoa developer that hasn't
really done this type of apps before.
As I said earlier the model layer is overlapped
if you use Core Data and you should I think?
It users SQLite, it gives you your ORM and it gives
you persistence for free, you don't have to think
about serializing things and writing them out.
You can do that obviously, you can write your own
anything in Cocoa but you don't have to, it's awesome.
You also get a really great modeling tool
that I wish existed for more web frameworks.
So it's in a lot of cases especially in the simpler
apps, it will be your web tier, I mean your model tier.
You get implicit relationships in a query
syntax where you don't have to write SQL.
A lot of the same, you know like you go and
watch like the Rails web cast and if your sold
on that then you will be sold on this as well.
Web developers are already use to design you know databases
and normalizing databases, you really do get to just take
that one to one and take it over
into your Core Data experience.
There are some weird things you have to learn as times
goes on but you can start right away just with some ideas
of a few entities and start modeling and kick
out an app without writing any code at all.
NSManagedObject could be thought of for the Rails
people as ActiveRecord::Base, it's sort of your super class
for all of your, for all of your model objects.
With controllers you know web controllers
are support to be stateless, they,
a controller is you know conceptually may be one thing but
on a given request it's sort of the action that's invoked.
It could even just be Apache, just
handling the request in general.
You kick variables up often manually
sometimes there's somethings to help it out,
but you know you still have to do that.
Cocoa gives you statefullness so if you're a web developer
you can and you've never built a desktop app you get
to sort of keep local state which is great.
The different like object controllers like NSArray controller
manage all of your collections of objects
and give you really great ways to bind them and access them
and bind the contents of those arrays straight to your views
without having to push anything, it's really great.
Bindings you can also link sort of
manually just in your custom objects.
In that's, that binding is part of a sort of a
controller functionality and you know this state is there.
They do work well together, its not really that one
is better then the other and you know a lot of people
over the years have stepped into try to make HTTP
stateful you know faking it basically and you can do that
but you can also use that the way it's
intended, which is to keep it stateless
and you can do that side by side in you Cocoa app.
So you can pull things down and keep them around and you
know form the next request to go invoke something restfully.
The views, this is pretty obvious on each side, in a AppKit
you get all the windows , MS table views and the trees,
the collection view which is the new
cool grid and then you get WebViews.
You also get all your customs stuff but these are
the ones that are sort of, if you're transitioning
in you'll probably look at right away and use right away.
On the web side you get obviously pages.
That's the most popular view probably.
You can consume feeds.
Those are part of the view layer if you're a web developer.
All of your objects, I consider part of the view
because there sort of the payload of a response
and to that end the same thing with RESTful responses.
The response from Apache or Engine X is to me
part of the view, its part of the end result.
Some of the cooler hybrid apps that you guys probably use
already, MarsEdit you can you know publish, blog post,
you can write them ahead of time, publish them later.
You can sit on a flight tomorrow morning and write
about how your nerves are made of silk instead
of steal and how painful it can be to speak.
MarsEdit uses WebKit in a cool way, you can just
sort of type in content and it'll make it like sort
of cookie cutter you know HTML render for you.
Or you can link against your actual style sheet from you
site and see how things are going to look ahead of time.
For doing stuff like this you guys as coders, if
you're bloggers as well, you know that it takes 50 times
to like publish a block of code before it looks right and
before you know over flow doesn't kick in and everything.
You can preview it all locally and do it when you have
nothing else to do like when you are on Amtrak or the plane.
NetNewsWire, we've all been using it probably
forever and it obviously transforms RSS and Atom
and gives you a view of it that your use to like you have
those pages just sort of saved, they don't look the same
that they would but you can skin them
and make them look however you want.
It's just another instance.
Colloquy,  you know everyone's probably tried to hack
around and make nice skins for this and iChat,
the new iChat is going to do the same thing.
It uses it for the conversation window.
So I am going to summarize this a little bit cause
Chandler has a lot to talk about and show you guys.
But I mostly wanted to point out that these two disciplines
do have a lot in common, those of you who are sort
of hybrid developers know that weather
or not you are making hybrid apps.
There's a very low barrier to entry on both sides so
if you're a web developer and you never touched Cocoa,
like crack open Xcode on your flight back and play
just, IB especially you'll be able to play with a lot
and make this terrible interfaces
that Keith was talking about.
You should consider, this is unsolicited business advice
consider linking your software somehow to the web,
not you know just for the sake of doing it, but there
probably is a way that you could benefit from it.
Or that your users could benefit from it.
Be it to have you know widgets and iPhone pages that can
use the same data that your local you know OS X client uses,
there's a lot of appeal to a user, to me at least
in knowing whatever phone I am buying next month,
I'm probably going to be able to use the
same data that I mess with all the time.
We live in a multiclient world and the web
you know if you follow good security practices
and everything provides a nice
share point for all of that data.
You know single user, multiple clients, multiple
users, multiple clients, multiple user, single client.
It really doesn't matter.
You get to just sort of treat that
stuff as part of a bigger picture.
And like Keith opened with, WebKit isn't
really a substitute for everything.
We are guilty of throwing a web view and a window and
writing a big flash app you know and making that our app
or a demo or you know using for it prototyping.
We wouldn't release that you know, it's just there
because we're a web shop that makes it very easy
to not burn something on a CD-ROM and require
your clients to open a browser and wonder
if their IE chrome is six feet tall you know you
can use it in weird quick little one off ways.
But it does do a lot of stuff and all of it is for free.
And it's all based on standards that are
supported and developed by really smart people.
The protocols have been around forever so with
everyone moving back to the roots
of actually figuring out what the HTTP spec was all about.
You get to use tech that you know you can rely on.
So I am going to bring Chandler McWilliams, one of
our senior developers up to give you guys a demo
and to talk a little bit about a little lower
level about implementing  WebKit inside your app.
>> Chandler: Hello everyone could
we get the demo machine please?
So here's the application that Keith showed earlier.
This is a running application in leopard.
We've got some charting going on here, all,
we kind of walk you through the application.
You can see a few different views of the data, looks
like whatever tower stream was it's not happy today.
So what we have going on here is there's
actually a number of WebKits used here.
This isn't one of the applications that Toby had
mentioned where the whole thing is one gigantic web view.
There's actually seven, eight, nine web views going on here.
The first one is this bar along the top.
So you recognize the familiar search bar here
which those of you that know HTML will know
that you can use with the imput type search.
So this kind of comes for free on WebKit.
So this whole top bar is used for searching for new
quotes and it uses prototype to make the AJAX request
to actually pull the data from a web service.
And then pull it back to the application.
That data is then piped up into Core Data and saved to
the user's machine so I can unplug this from the web.
As Toby's saying I can be on an airplane any where
else and the data will still be there and then instead
of the other view that Keith had shown, which we started
with, which is kind of difficult to see trends in.
We decided to bring in this web and now we are
using Dojo charting here to draw the graph for us.
So as I said there are a number of web views and
the whole app is skinnable just using CSS and HTML.
So this top web view actually extends down the whole
back of the application and what that gives us is
that we can change the whole background
color of the app just by changing the CSS.
The other places the web view can be
seen is obviously in the graph here.
This is a separate view that's connected via bindings to
the Core Data store so when you select one of these buckets
over here it kind of pumps up to the application controller
what the active one is and then that gets sent back
down into this graph view so that you can
see the data and the particular context.
Now this view over here as Toby said, were
somewhat enamored of the NS collection view
because you get all theses cool sorting animations for free.
So this is an NS collection view and each of
the cells is actually another WebKit view.
So it's a grid of WebKit views and what we get there is
that we can do little core animation
tricks and get all this nice sorting.
But you can completely change the way this looks.
So what I want to do now, now that you guys kind
of have an overview of what's going on here.
I want to see if I can tweak this application
just a little bit to kind of change the colors.
So I tried to whip up a little style sheet
last night, so lets see how this goes.
So here's the application, I can just double click
it to launch it like a normal Cocoa application.
But what I could do in this case is, say there's a few of
the images that we don't like, something's that we want
to tweak, I can pass this onto a designer like Keith or
some other web developer and they can just go in here
with package content and everything that they need is
right here in this HTML directory in the resources.
So these are all the resources necessary for the
application, for all the different web views.
You can see that there's a style
sheet here for the company web view,
which is each of the little buckets in the NS grid.
There is a few other style sheets for the graph
and another one for the stock services as a whole.
So as I said I kinds put something together ahead of
time, so let's see if I do a little renaming here.
So I'm just going to, I'm basically, what I'm doing here
is that any of your users could make there own style sheets
and just inject this into your application.
And one of the great things that you
get when you do something like that is
that you get basically get an instant community.
As soon as you get a few people kind
of linked around your application.
So here's, now you can see all the top is
green, there's less images involved here,
you still get all the sorting and
all that just using text links.
So as I said I just kind of threw this
style sheet together very quickly here.
But the idea is that you can go out to your users
and you can say here's kind of a default design,
now you guys do my work for me and make
all these other designs because people love
to just share their own interpretations
of things and by using WebKit
in your application you really, really get to do that.
So lets go back to slides.
>> Chandler: So what do we have
going on under the hood here?
I'm going to do yet another list of all the technologies.
One of the great things about building applications using
WebKit is that since the web views alone use a number
of technologies, you can make these incredibly
impressive lists of all the things you know.
So this application is using AJAX, we got XHTML for the
view, CSS to make things look pretty, some JavaScript.
In this particular case the JavaScript is being
used to make the call using AJAX to get the data,
its being used to draw the graph
along side the Dojo charting.
library, which is fantastic, its also being used for
some of the little widgets, so when you click on one
of those buckets in the NS collection view, its
JavaScripted pumping that up into the application
and then bringing it back into Core Data.
Lets see what else?
We also have as I mentioned, using SVG and Dojo.fx,
all of the graph there is all done in SVG.
And then again XML making AJAX request pulls
up an XML format off of any server on the web
and then that's parsed and that
data is pushed into Core Data.
Core Data as Toby mentioned is basically a database
that you have running on your machine all the time.
And its fairly straight forward especially for those of
you that know SQL or SQLite, you can just stick your data
in there and it will go around with you and then
finally the NSCollectionView, which is just fantastic
because you get all those great little
animations right out of the box.
And then we have bindings.
Bindings are used to connect some of the
NS ray controllers into NSCollectionView
so that we just get the layout just
kind of comes out so it's really great
when you add a new company everything
just kind of sorts and falls into place.
So again here is what we started with,
this is jut kind of AppKit out of the box.
One of the great things about using Core
Data is that there's a prototyping tool
where you can just drag your models in to Interface
Builder and it will just pump out a simple interface.
So when I was developing this I used that
and just kind of moved things around a bit
so that I could get this column view,
it's a little bit easier to look at.
And then here's the application without any CSS at
all, so as you can see it's not much to look at.
Kind of difficult to see what's going on, you
can, those of you are web developers might notice
that there's some unordered list because all the mark
up is symantec even though no one will ever see it.
And then what we wanted to do is we wanted to
go ahead and try to make this pretty with CSS.
So here's just a little snippet of some of
the vary straight forward CSS that we used
to start to kind of massage things into place.
And then here is an older view of the same application.
Again all designed just using XHTML and CSS.
So what I am going to do right now is
give a little WebKit 101 for those of you
that have used WebKit, this will
be a little bit of a review.
But hopefully there's a lot of you out
there who haven't made the leap quite yet,
you've seen some of the applications this week
and you're really wondering how you can kind
of bring this into your own application.
And what I am going to do is go over some of the
technologies here in slides and then do another demo to kind
of do it live so you can see how it really works out.
So the great thing about WebKit is as many of you might
know, you can make a web browser using one line of code.
So here's the one line that you need.
Every web view has a mainframe element and you
just load a request using the NSURLRequest
and in this particular case I'm just loading apple.com.
This can also be a local file on the file system
which we, what we've done for the application.
Well this is all you need to load a particular request
so with this single line of code and just a few minutes
in Interface Builder and Xcode
you could make an application
that a user could launch and it
will only load a single web page.
I've seen a couple of these for Google mail, so you
can just double click and it goes right to Google mail
and you have Google mail on your own window so you
don't accidentally close it or anything like that.
There very basic applications but there
actually really, really fantastic.
So here is a little bit of an expansion
with the famous one line of code browser.
After adding an NSTextField to your window
you can see I've replaced the URLWithString,
which is getting the string value from an NSTextField,
which again is just a simple message there.
So one thing to keep in mind when you are building
these applications is if you have your own HTML,
you want to bring along with the app, it's very
simple if you need to connect to an external resource.
But in this case we have our HTML, we have
our CSS, we have the whole Dojo library,
all of the images and SVG that we are using.
So something you have to do is kind of wrestle
with Xcode to get it to bring those things along.
Some of you might have noticed that in Xcode it's not
difficult but it's non trivial to get a directory structure
of assets to be preserved inside of your resources folder.
Normally that is not such a big deal for
application development but when you're using a website,
Since many of us web developers, cause
I also sit on both sides of that fence,
we use very, very strict directory structures.
You know, we will have a JavaScript library and
everything has to be in its place and you know we
like to put our images in one folder and the CSS in
another and everyone has a different way of doing it
but we're all fairly, fairly strict about it.
And so one nice thing that you can do is use the Run Script
build phase in Xcode to just copy your whole HTML directory
into the resources and then just
refer to that from then on out.
And the nice thing there is that you can actually
have another developer, develop the site using just
that directory, they can get everything working while
you're working on the application and then just swap
out the assets and everything just works.
So here a little sample code as well.
This is just a simple bash script at the top that uses some
of the built in constants to find out where you project is
and to first remove the HTML directory
and then just copy the new on in.
It's kind of a scorched earth approach
but its fairly fast and does the job.
Next we have how to load a file from the bundle so as I
said, since you , in this case are outing everything into
and HTML directory, when you load something from the bundle
what you need to do is just use the NSbundle mainBundle
to get a fix on the applications bundle and then get the
resourcePath on that bundle to get the directory back.
And here I am using pathWithComponents
to concatenate the HTML directory
on to the end of the resource path of the bundle.
And then finally I am going to use
NSbundles pathForResource oftype
inDirectory method to get the index HTML file for that.
Now you might see that I could of just used NSStrings
pathWithComponents, I could of just added another member
to the array there and out index.html on the end
and it would of just slammed it all together.
But the nice thing about using the pathForResource
method is that it makes sure that it's valid.
So in this particular case I have taken out
the error checking for the sake of brevity.
But you might get the full path back
as null if the resource isn't there,
and so that gives you just a little
bit more error checking especially
if you intend your application
to be something that's skinnable.
If you send it out into the world and some of your users
maybe misnames the index HTML or accidentally deletes it
or something like that, this would be the point in
your application where you can rescue from such a thing
and either auto generate a new index HTML or give the user
some sort of indication that something gone terribly wrong.
And then finally just how to load the file there.
So let me see if I can make a web
browser here in just a couple of minutes.
( Pause in speaking. )
>> Chandler: So I've already got my web code project
here, this is just an application here called oneliner.
And I am going to go through the motions
of just making a one line web browser.
So I am going to go into frameworks, so the first thing
that's important to do is you need to add the framework.
So I am going to go to project, add to project, and
we need to add the WebKit framework to this project.
So, let me see if I can find this here.
( Pause in speaking. )
>> Chandler: Alright, so I got my WebKit framework
in there and then in my classes directory,
I need to make a new file here, so I am just going
to make a new objective C class and this is going
to be the controller for the application.
So now I've got my controller here, so then just for sake
of making sure I am just going to
go ahead and put WebKit in here.
I think I need the (inaudible) case.
So now I am importing WebKit into my
controller so I've got that part settled.
And let's open the nib here
in interface builder, if we can.
Alright, so here is my window,
let me get this out of the way.
So here's my window and I am just going to
use the new library to look for the web view.
Pull this out a little.
And then I'm going to want in this
text field here for the URL field.
Now let's get this size inspector here so he
can get some springs involved with everything.
For those of you that are web developers,
this might seem like magic, I hope.
Alright, and then let's, get an NS object here so in IB3 the
way to get a particular instance of one of your objects is
to drag out an NS object and then change
the class, so it should auto fill.
Its syncing with Xcode to find the class so now
I've got my controller and I am going to go ahead
and add an action here, lets call it load URL
and I am going to add a couple of outlets.
One is going to be for the web view, and
one is going to be for the location.
So now I've got these in place and I want
to add those again to my header here,
so I am going to see if this will work.
I'm lazy, so I am just going to try to drag these over
here, it's a very sexy new feature of Interface Builder
and it should work just fine for that as well.
And so now I can switch back.
>> Chandler: Into my class here, so I am back
into the M file and I got this load URL action,
so now that everything is kind of in place,
let's do the final steps in Interface Builder.
I'm going to control drag connect to that
to load URL connect this to the web view
and just for fun connect that to the location.
So now let's do the one line web browser.
So I am going to get the web views mainframe.
I haven't said that in a while.
And I am going to get the NSURL request.
Lets see request with URL.
So let's go to, actually let's go ahead and do this.
So now I just grab the value coming directly out
of the sender in this case I got all those paired.
Well let's see what happens.
Nope I think I have an extra bracket.
Sorry everyone.
( Pause in speaking. )
>> Chandler: Far left.
Well that's not working out.
Oh there we go.
Thank you.
Sorry about that.
( Pause in speaking. )
>> Chandler: And there we have a web browser.
So now this is just a normal web browser,
any URL that you type here up at the top,
as soon as you hit enter is going to take you there.
So we can see you don't get any of the
bells and whistles like loaders but things
like Flash and all of your plug-ins work.
So as you can see it fairly simple
to make a very quick web browser.
So can I go back to slides please?
( Applause )
Chandler: Okay so now that we have the web browser out
of the way, let's talk a little bit about how to get
JavaScript and Cocoa to communicate with one another.
So in an application like the stock viewer you need to
be able to have some kind of connection between the two
When you bring an event in through AJAX or something like
that in a web view you need to be able to throw that up
to your application to go into another view, could be
a table view or to go into something like core date.
So first I am going to talk about going from JavaScript
in Cocoa so once you have the web view in place you need
to do a few things just to make sure you've
got a hold of the right bits you need.
So right here I'm just creating inside
of a controller class in this instance.
In my init method I am just making a new web view,
just from code without using an Interface Builder.
And then in the awakeFromNib I'm going
to set the frame load delegate to self.
Now what that's going to mean is that when ever
a new document loads that this controller is set
up as the delegate so it will receive all the events.
And then I am going to just go ahead and use
the loadHTMLString with baseURL method
and I am just going to load in an empty stream.
So one great thing here is that if you could put any HTML
you want, you can actually hard code some of the HTML
into your application and keep that
out of the prying hands of your users.
So you can kind of split the difference here if you want
to make sure that some of the things here are pristine.
And then finally you need to be prepared to
answer when the WebScriptObject is available.
So when a page is loaded the WebScriptObject
which is the way you can communicate
to the JavaScript engine isn't immediately available.
So once the page is loaded this delegate method is called
and you can make an ivar in this case the WSO ivar,
to hold onto reference to this window script.
Now once you have that object you can start
making your calls, so there are three main ways
that you can make JavaScript calls from
Cocoa to make JavaScript do what you want.
So the first tier is just using callWebScriptMethod
with arguments,
so the WebScript method here is called the helloJS, so this
would just be a normal JavaScript function in the document
that you loaded and then you can pass in a
number of arguments in an NSArray,
so in this case I am passing a single
argument which is Cocoa calling JavaScript.
So once this is called that method, the helloJS function
inside JavaScript is called and passed this argument.
Another thing you can do is just directly set
values using KVO inside of your JavaScript.
So here I am just setting a variable called jsVariable
and giving it a value of new value inside of my WebKit.
So you can very simply pass variable values
back and forth between Cocoa and JavaScript.
And then here we have a way that you can
evaluate JavaScript and return the result.
So since I come from the web world and I
like, I'm used to things like math random
and these quick JavaScript ways to do certain things.
Right here I am just using evaluateWebScript to just
call math.random to get a random number between zero
and 100 just one line and it will stick the result
into my variable there and I am ready to go.
Now of course this uses an eval similar to the JavaScript
eval and whenever you do that you have to be careful
to keep your quotes straight and
all your commas in the right place
because it's a little bit less rigid way to do things.
So now we know how to go from Cocoa to JavaScript and
going back the other way is fairly simple as well.
Again, there's some things you need to set up first.
The first thing is you can see I'm using my
script object here and I'm going to set a value,
in this case called controller, which will make a
variable in JavaScript that references your controller.
So again, similar is grabbing this WSO
object in the first place to give you a hook
into the JavaScript engine, this is the inverse move.
So this way you could go from JavaScript
and you could call out to the Cocoa class.
The next thing you need to do is allow access to
some or all of the selectors in the Cocoa class.
Out of the box all of your selectors are
protected so you can't call them from JavaScript.
So if some of you have poked around with
this but not too much and just got frustrated
because nothing wasn't working,
this was probably the culprit.
If this is, again, a scorched earth approach that will
allow JavaScript to access any selector in your class,
but you can tweak this and you can have some
conditionals in here that only allow certain selectors.
Again, make notice that this method is selector excluded
from WebScript and if you return NO it's not excluded.
That always seemed a little bit backwards to me.
So you have to return NO to mean
that it's okay to call these methods.
And then finally we have allow
access to some or all properties
in the Cocoa class using the isKeyExcludedFromWebScript.
This is basically the cousin of
isSelectorExcludedFromWebScript
which allows the JavaScript engine
access to certain keys in your class.
Now there's a few things to keep in mind when
you're going to call from JavaScript to Cocoa.
Since Cocoa is obviously, or object C is a
severely different language than JavaScript,
there's a few naming conventions you have to keep in mind.
Most importantly is any colons in a method in objective
C in Cocoa need to be replaced with underscores.
And this is incredibly important when you're using a method
that only has a single argument you need to make sure
to have that trailing underscore on the end.
And then you also just use the reference to
the Cocoa object that we made a moment ago.
So what I'm going to do here is you can see a simple
Cocoa method that I just pulled out of the stock here
the didLoadValue forSymbol and company and I'll show
you how to translate that into the JavaScript equivalent.
So when this is moved into JavaScript you see
the first thing I have there is the controller,
that variable I set up using KDO that refers to my class.
And then the .operator and then the didLoadValue_for
Symbol_andCompany using underscores in place of the colons.
Now again, here is a Cocoa method that takes
a single argument, just a setName method,
which in the JavaScript becomes setName_
to replace every colon with an underscore.
And then finally just a simple instance where there
are no arguments, it's just the method name itself.
So here's kind of an overview of all of that.
Let's keep going.
So you can make better method names.
So, this is especially important when you're
actually working with a JavaScript
or an HTML developer to do more sophisticated things.
You know, this gives you kind of an
easy way to make a light protocol,
to make some contracts with this
developer that you're working with.
Some number of JavaScript developers have never seen Cocoa,
have no idea what objective C is, and so when you say yeah,
you have to have a trailing underscore
on the method, sorry about that,
they'll get a little bit upset with
you, or just be kind of confused.
So what you can do is you can use the webScriptName
ForSelector method to set up some conditionals,
testing against the selector, and then
return a more JavaScript friendly name.
so in this particular case, I'm testing for the
didLoadValueForSymbolAndCompany selector.
And I'm just going to return a more JavaScript friendly
camel case sort of format without the underscores.
And then again, the same thing for the setName selector.
I'm just going to return it without the trailing underscore.
So the JavaScript becomes a little bit cleaner.
So another thing to keep in mind is how
things are serialized as you move between it.
The engine is pretty phenomenal in
the way that things get mixed up.
So JavaScript numbers are converted to NSNumber
objects, or basic data types, like int and float,
strings are converted to NSString,
and all this is just for free.
And this is all from the documentation.
The JavaScript arrays are mapped to NSArray objects.
Kind of. So more often than not your JavaScript arrays are
actually going to show up as WebScript objects in Cocoa,
which means that you need to use KVC
methods to get out values from that.
This is particularly true, in my experience, when
you use a JavaScript library such as Prototype,
which messes around quite a bit with the
built in JavaScript array prototypes.
It adds other methods and things, and
I think in those particular cases,
you're more often than not going
to come up with a WebScript object.
You can use the simple KVC methods, WebScriptValueAtIndex,
which will treat it like an array.
And there's really no difference otherwise.
Other JavaScript objects are actually wrapped as
WebScriptObject instances, which you can use KDO to access.
Going the other way, from Cocoa to JavaScript,
again, NSNumbers are turned into JavaScript numbers.
NSStrings become JavaScript strings.
NSArray objects are mapped to special read-only arrays
in JavaScript, you need to make a copy of the array
if you want to play with it inside the JavaScript.
And nulls converted to JavaScript nulls
The Cocoa web undefined type is converted to undefined.
And all WebScriptObject instances are
unwrapped for the scripting environment.
Also, the NSDictionary is not
serialized in a usable format.
It comes in as a type that is very difficult to access.
So I typically suggest using NSArray instead
and making some nice JavaScript helper methods
so that you can know the index of
the property that you want to access.
So just to kind of start an overview, some
different options for Using webView as Toby
and Keith have mentioned we've made an
entire application that's just a web view.
We can take a website that we've built, throw it inside of
this application and you get something you can kind of carry
around on your laptop and show to your clients.
This is also great for use of things Dojo Offline and
Google Gears, so that you can do a pure JavaScript technique
for storing things on the user's computer.
You can also use a web view alongside
of other AppKit views.
In the example I showed, there is an NSCollection
view, but it uses WebKit views inside of it,
which is somewhat confusing, but you
can have your WebKit view right up there
with an NSTable or any of the other AppKit views.
Another option, as I showed with the NSCollection
view, is to use it inside.
So any time that there is a cell you can just throw a
web view in there and get a little bit finer control.
And finally you can also use multiple WebViews, one for
service consumption and status, one for displaying things,
or just using them in different ways to
kind of leverage the power of your users.
And also, it gives you an alternative to drawing inside
of custom NSViews, by using WebView and Canvas.
So you can throw a web view in there just to use
JavaScript so that you can draw inside of it.
A lot of developers are familiar
with drawing inside of Canvas,
but not so much how to draw using the NSView methods.
So again, the most obvious reasons to use WebKit
are to consume resources, to get cheaper designers,
which is always good, use XHTML web services, images,
videos, rich media, easy drawing using Canvas and SVG,
and you can also, as Toby mentioned, modify resources with
user registration, activating serials, support requests,
updating resources internally in the app,
and also, of course, templates and skinning.
So that does it for me.
There's one more thing.
George is going to come back up here and
kind of take you through a few more points.
So, thank you very much.
( Applause )
>> George: Okay.
Given the time frame right now, we're about twelve
minutes left, show of hands, how many of you have been
to the iPhone developing websites for
iPhones session or seen the rebroadcast?
Practically the entire room.
Great. So let me just get quick through these.
I'm going to talk about this, I want to open up
the floor for Q and A, and then we have a lab later
on where you'll be able to meet the Barbarian
Group and talk to the WebKit development team,
as well as the QuickTime Development Team.
So as you've seen in the previous sessions,
live or prerecorded, good design practices.
Be sure to ensure you're using column layouts.
Using divs.
If you haven't read up on the Swiss Grid
system, I highly encourage you to pick up some
of those graphics design novels, it'll
help influence a lot of your web design.
Size does matter in terms of the assets.
Media queries.
Be sure you're reading up on the latest CSS3 implementation
as it relates to both WebKit as well as the W3C
in handling media queries for resolution
independence, optimizing for iPhone.
Key things you want to remember.
Dealing with the view port.
How large is the actual view port
of your content on any given page.
That will help the rendering time as the iPhone sort
of designates how to zoom in and zoom out of content.
Dealing with the double tap.
Dealing with the two fingers and how you
actually interact with the actual device.
Text size adjustment.
That also is based on how big your viewport is.
Remember, keeping things somewhat contained and not
having things flow across the width of the page.
Events. Reading up on what the exact JavaScript
DOM events are that the iPhone does support.
Again we'll be releasing more information probably
sometime at the end of this day around the information
that you saw previously in your previous sessions.
And in media.
Being sure that you encode your media properly using
H.264 baseline profile and have it properly optimized
for both the Edge network as well as
the WiFi network user reference movies.
So with that, I'm just going to you
click through the more information.
If you have specific questions either relating to the
hybrid session you just saw, to iPhone development
or anything related to web development here at
Apple, in general, please contact Mark Malone.
He's a World Wide Developer relations
manager and evangelist.
Anything related to media as it relates
to iPhone or it might be integrated media
within a hybrid WebKit Cocoa implementation of
your application, please contact Allan Shaffer.
And then lastly, today we have some interesting sessions.
Please be sure to check them out if you have time.
We've got a Developing a Rich Media
WebKit Based Application in Presidio.
That's going to cover in-depth, the
rich media uses of SVG, QuickTime,
which are all applicable to the
hybrid app session you just saw.
As well as later on this evening we're going to have
the founder of, one of the key founders of 37 Signals,
as well as the development lead and creator of Prototype,
Sam Stevenson will be on Russian Hill
talking about the Prototype Framework.
We also have a lab dealing specifically
for Hybrid-WebKit/Cocoa Applications.
If your question was not able to be answerer in the last 90
minutes, please take all your questions out to the hallway,
because do have to clear out the room to make
room for the next session that's coming in.
but also, please come to the lab.
The lab starts at 2 p.m. in the graphics and
media lab, downstairs on the first floor.